README.md, before:

# [HW|Blog](https://ci-pp4-hwblog-402679d73bbc.herokuapp.com/)

Welcome to HWBlog - Your Hub for Tech Enthusiasts

Dive into the HWBlog, a dedicated space for all things hardware, coding, 3D printing, Windows, and gaming. Our blog is the go-to destination for enthusiasts and professionals alike, seeking insights, tips, and discussions on the latest in technology.

**Explore Our Content:**

Hardware Haven: From the latest gadgets to in-depth hardware reviews, we’ve got you covered.
Code Corner: Discover programming tutorials, development tips, and industry best practices.
3D Printing Zone: Step into the world of 3D printing with guides, project ideas, and expert advice.
Windows Wisdom: Stay updated with Windows news, troubleshooting, and optimization techniques.
Gaming Galaxy: Join us for game reviews, previews, and everything in between for the gaming community.

![Mockup HW|Blog](docs/readme_images/Mockup_HWBlog.png)

[HW|Blog live site](https://ci-pp4-hwblog-402679d73bbc.herokuapp.com/)

## Agile Planning and Development Process
The development of HW|Blog followed an Agile methodology, utilizing a Kanban board hosted on GitHub to manage tasks and workflows. This approach made it easier to focus on immediate tasks while also keeping an eye on the broader project goals and progress.

### Kanban Board

[Link to the board](https://github.com/users/GKopanidis/projects/5)

The board was divided into three primary columns:

- **Todo:** Tasks that are planned but not yet in progress.
- **In Progress:** Tasks currently being worked on.
- **Done:** Tasks that have been completed.

Each task was created as an issue and then categorized into Epics and User Stories for better organization and focus.

### Epics and User Stories

Prior to starting development, Epics and User Stories were created to define the scope and goals of the project. This made it easier to break down the project into smaller, manageable chunks and helped in tracking progress effectively.

- **Epics**: Large areas of work that contain multiple tasks.
- **User Stories**: Smaller tasks that contribute to the completion of an Epic.

This Agile planning setup contributed significantly to the efficient and focused development of Loop

### Site Goals

As a User:

- **Discover:** Explore a wide array of content on hardware, coding, 3D printing, Windows, and gaming.
- **Learn:** Benefit from tutorials, reviews, and expert insights, tailored for both novices and experienced tech enthusiasts.
- **Participate:** Join a community of like-minded individuals, share your projects, and receive feedback from peers.
- **Inspire:** Get inspired by innovative projects and creative solutions.
- **Connect:** Network with experts and hobbyists in the tech world.

As a Site Owner:

- **Educate:** Provide valuable content that keeps users at the forefront of technology and innovation.
- **Develop:** Create a platform that not only attracts tech aficionados but also fosters a community around shared interests.
- **Innovate:** Continuously enhance the site by introducing new features, content, and interactive elements to improve the user experience.
- **Support:** Offer support and resources for users to expand their skills and knowledge.
- **Expand:** Increase the site’s reach to engage a broader audience and build a more comprehensive community.

## Overview

### Existing Features

**For Users:**

- **Like Button for Blog Posts:** Implement a like button for users to express appreciation for content.

    <img src="docs/readme_images/like_button.png" width="75%" height="75%">

- **Comment on a Post:** Allow users to comment on posts to engage with content and community.

    <img src="docs/readme_images/comment_post.png" width="75%" height="75%">

- **Account Registration:** Enable users to register for an account to access personalized features.

    <img src="docs/readme_images/register.png" width="75%" height="75%">

- **View Comments:** Users can view comments on posts to read community discussions.

    <img src="docs/readme_images/view_comments.png" width="75%" height="75%">

- **Open a Post:** Provide users the ability to open and read a post in full detail.

- **Explore Paginated Post List:** Allow users to explore posts in a paginated format for better navigation.

    <img src="docs/readme_images/pagination.png" width="75%" height="75%">

- **Add Post to Favorites:** Users can add posts to a favorites list for easy access later.

    <img src="docs/readme_images/favorite_button.png" width="75%" height="75%">

- **Profile Customization:** Once logged in, users can view and customize their profile, including uploading a picture, changing their username, email, and adding an "About Me" text.

    <img src="docs/readme_images/show_profile.png" width="75%" height="75%">

    <img src="docs/readme_images/edit_profile.png" width="75%" height="75%">

- **Category Viewing and Filtering:** Users can view categories and filter posts by category or view all posts collectively.

    <img src="docs/readme_images/categories.png" width="75%" height="75%">

- **Submit Request for Collaborations:** Enable a feature for submitting collaboration requests.

    <img src="docs/readme_images/submit_request_collab.png" width="75%" height="75%">

- **Make the About Page Accessible to Users:** Ensure users can easily access and read the About page.

    <img src="docs/readme_images/about_page.png" width="75%" height="75%">

- **404 Page Visibility:** Users should encounter a user-friendly 404 page when navigating to a nonexistent link, guiding them back to the active parts of the site.

    <img src="docs/readme_images/404.png" width="75%" height="75%">

**For Site Owners:**

- **Store Collaboration Requests:** Safely store submitted collaboration requests for later review.

    <img src="docs/readme_images/admin_collab_req.png" width="75%" height="75%">

- **Mark Collaborations as Read:** Ability to mark collaborations requests as read to manage incoming queries.

    <img src="docs/readme_images/collab_mark_read.png" width="75%" height="75%">

- **Create an About Page:** Develop an About page to share the mission, vision, and team behind the site.

    <img src="docs/readme_images/create_about_page.png" width="75%" height="75%">

- **Review and Approve Comments:** Implement a system for reviewing and approving user comments to maintain a positive community environment. You can also approve comments as an superuser or staff member inside the post.

  Admin panel:

    <img src="docs/readme_images/rev_and_appr_comment_1.png" width="75%" height="75%">
    <img src="docs/readme_images/rev_and_appr_comment_2.png" width="75%" height="75%">

  Frontend:

    <img src="docs/readme_images/rev_and_appr_comment_3.png" width="75%" height="75%">

- **Create Drafts:** Allow the creation of content drafts for future publication.

    <img src="docs/readme_images/post_draft.png" width="75%" height="75%">

- **Manage Posts:** Provide tools to manage (edit, update, delete) existing blog posts.

    <img src="docs/readme_images/manage_posts_1.png" width="75%" height="75%">


- **Modify or Delete a Post:** Enable the ability to modify or delete posts as needed.

    <img src="docs/readme_images/manage_posts_2.png" width="75%" height="75%">

- **Create Categories:** Develop a system for creating and managing post categories to organize content efficiently.

    <img src="docs/readme_images/create_cat.png" width="75%" height="75%">

### Features Planned

- **User-Generated Content:** Enable users to create and submit their own content, which will be published upon approval by administrators.

- **Social Media Login:** Implement functionality for users to authenticate and login using their social media accounts, enhancing convenience and accessibility.

- **Newsletter Integration:** Integrate a newsletter feature to allow users to subscribe and receive regular updates, fostering engagement and communication.

## Design

### Wireframes

### ERD
- Entity relationship diagram was created using [DBVisualizer](https://www.dbvis.com/) and shows the schemas for each of the models and how they are related.

    <img src="docs/readme_images/ERD.png" width="75%" height="75%">

## Technolgies

- HTML
  - The structure of the Website was developed using HTML as the main language.
- CSS
  - The Website was styled using custom CSS in an external file.
- JavaScript
  - JavaScript was used to make the custom slider on the menu page change and the bootstrap date picker.
- Python
  - Python was the main programming language used for the application using the Django Framework.
- Visual Studio Code
  - The website was developed using Visual Studio Code IDE
- GitHub
  - Source code is hosted on GitHub
- Git
  - Used to commit and push code during the development of the Website
- Font Awesome
  - This was used for various icons throughout the site
- Favicon.io
  - favicon files were created at https://favicon.io/favicon-converter/
- balsamiq
  - wireframes were created using balsamiq from https://balsamiq.com/wireframes/desktop/#


**Python Modules Used**

- Django Class based views (ListView, UpdateView, DeleteView, CreateView) - Used for the classes to create, read, update and delete
- messages - Used to pass messages to the toasts to display feedback to the user upon actions

**External Python Modules**

- **asgiref==3.7.2:** ASGI (Asynchronous Server Gateway Interface) utilities for Python asynchronous web apps and servers.
- **cloudinary==1.36.0:** A client library for integrating Cloudinary services, enabling easy image and video management in the cloud.
- **crispy-bootstrap5==0.7:** Integrates Django forms with Bootstrap 5, providing a way to render form fields in a Bootstrap style easily.
- **dj-database-url==0.5.0:** Utility to help configure Django database settings using a URL, supporting different database engines.
- **dj3-cloudinary-storage==0.0.6:** Django 3 storage backend for Cloudinary, allowing easy file uploads to Cloudinary's cloud service.
- **Django==4.2.9:** A high-level Python Web framework that encourages rapid development and clean, pragmatic design.
- **django-allauth==0.57.0:** Authentication app for Django, providing a set of features such as social account authentication.
- **django-crispy-forms==2.1:** Django app that lets you easily build, customize, and reuse forms using your favorite CSS framework.
- **django-summernote==0.8.20.0:** Django app that integrates the Summernote WYSIWYG editor, allowing for rich text editing in forms.
- **gunicorn==20.1.0:** A Python WSGI HTTP Server for UNIX, designed to serve Python web applications from a web server.
- **oauthlib==3.2.2:** A generic, spec-compliant library to implement OAuth1 and OAuth2 providers and clients in Python.
- **psycopg2==2.9.9:** PostgreSQL database adapter for Python, providing access to PostgreSQL from Python code.
- **PyJWT==2.8.0:** A Python library to encode and decode JSON Web Tokens (JWT), used in authentication protocols.
- **python3-openid==3.2.0:** A Python 3 library for OpenID support, facilitating the implementation of OpenID authentication.
- **requests-oauthlib==1.3.1:** Provides OAuthlib authentication support for Requests, simplifying OAuth1 and OAuth2 client integration.
- **sqlparse==0.4.4:** A non-validating SQL parser for Python, useful for formatting SQL queries or extracting information from them.
- **urllib3==1.26.18:** A powerful HTTP client for Python, with features for thread safety, connection pooling, client-side SSL/TLS, and more.
- **whitenoise==5.3.0:** Simplifies static file serving for Python web apps, with integration for Django, Flask, and other WSGI apps.


## Deployment

### Version Control

The site was created using the Visual Studio Code editor and pushed to github to the remote repository ‘ci-pp4-hwblog’.

The following git commands were used throughout development to push code to the remote repo:

```git add <file>``` - This command was used to add the file(s) to the staging area before they are committed.

```git commit -m “commit message”``` - This command was used to commit changes to the local repository queue ready for the final step.

```git push``` - This command was used to push all committed code to the remote repository on github.

### Heroku Deployment

The site was deployed to Heroku. The steps to deploy are as follows:

- Navigate to heroku and create an account
- Click the new button in the top right corner
- Select create new app
- Enter app name
- Select region and click create app
- Click the resources tab and search for Heroku Postgres
- Select hobby dev and continue
- Go to the settings tab and then click reveal config vars
- Add the following config vars:
  - SECRET_KEY: (Your secret key)
  - DATABASE_URL: (This should already exist with add on of postgres)
  - CLOUNDINARY_URL: (cloudinary api url)
- Click the deploy tab
- Scroll down to Connect to GitHub and sign in / authorize when prompted
- In the search box, find the repository you want to deploy and click connect
- Scroll down to Manual deploy and choose the main branch
- Click deploy

The app should now be deployed.

The live link can be found here: [Live Site](https://ci-pp4-hwblog-402679d73bbc.herokuapp.com/)


### Creating a Database

- Log into ElephantSQL.com and access your dashboard.
- Click "Create New Instance".
- Set up a plan, name it, and select the closest data center.
- Click "Review" and "Create instance".
- Return to the ElephantSQL dashboard and copy the database URL.


### The env.py File
- Create an env.py file and ensure it's in .gitignore.
- Add DATABASE_URL and SECRET_KEY to env.py.
- If using Cloudinary, add CLOUDINARY_URL to env.py.

### Run Locally

Navigate to the GitHub Repository you want to clone to use locally:

- Click on the code drop down button
- Click on HTTPS
- Copy the repository link to the clipboard
- Open your IDE of choice (git must be installed for the next steps)
- Type git clone copied-git-url into the IDE terminal

The project will now have been cloned on your local machine for use.

### Fork Project

Most commonly, forks are used to either propose changes to someone else's project or to use someone else's project as a starting point for your own idea.

- Navigate to the GitHub Repository you want to fork.

- On the top right of the page under the header, click the fork button.

- This will create a duplicate of the full project in your GitHub Repository.

## Credits

[Django Blog](https://github.com/GKopanidis/ci-pp4-wt-django-blog "Django Blog")
  - A valuable resource utilized in the educational journey, serving as a reference point for project deployment.

[Mastering Mixins in Django](https://medium.com/@bobbykboseoffice/mastering-mixins-in-django-acda05b34dd6#:~:text=In%20Django%2C%20mixins%20are%20used,other%20classes%20by%20using%20inheritance. "Mastering Mixins in Django")
  - Explains the effective utilization of mixins in Django, enhancing code modularity and reusability through inheritance.

[Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/)
  - A vital knowledge repository pivotal in the development and troubleshooting phases of the project.

[Django Project Docs DB Model](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.2/topics/db/models/) \
  - Provides comprehensive guidance on constructing database models in Django, facilitating efficient data management.

[Django AllAuth Docs](https://django-allauth.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) \
  - Offers detailed insights into the functionality of Django AllAuth, a versatile authentication solution for Django projects.

[Bootstrap Documentation](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/5.3/getting-started/introduction/) \
  - An indispensable resource for simplifying front-end development with Bootstrap's extensive documentation and component library.

[Gareth McGirr](https://github.com/Gareth-McGirr) \
  - Acknowledged for providing invaluable guidance throughout the project's development process.

## Media

**Images**
   - AI image generator

### Acknowledgments

- Thank you to my mentor [Gareth-McGirr](https://github.com/Gareth-McGirr) who provided me with lots of pointers on resources to help on my 4th project!

Commit message:

Update HW|Blog name and add testing documentation

README.md, after:

# [HW|Blog](https://ci-pp4-hwblog-402679d73bbc.herokuapp.com/)

Welcome to HW|Blog - Your Hub for Tech Enthusiasts

Dive into the HWB|log, a dedicated space for all things hardware, coding, 3D printing, Windows, and gaming. Our blog is the go-to destination for enthusiasts and professionals alike, seeking insights, tips, and discussions on the latest in technology.

**Explore Our Content:**

Hardware Haven: From the latest gadgets to in-depth hardware reviews, we’ve got you covered.
Code Corner: Discover programming tutorials, development tips, and industry best practices.
3D Printing Zone: Step into the world of 3D printing with guides, project ideas, and expert advice.
Windows Wisdom: Stay updated with Windows news, troubleshooting, and optimization techniques.
Gaming Galaxy: Join us for game reviews, previews, and everything in between for the gaming community.

![Mockup HW|Blog](docs/readme_images/Mockup_HWBlog.png)

[HW|Blog live site](https://ci-pp4-hwblog-402679d73bbc.herokuapp.com/)

## Agile Planning and Development Process
The development of HW|Blog followed an Agile methodology, utilizing a Kanban board hosted on GitHub to manage tasks and workflows. This approach made it easier to focus on immediate tasks while also keeping an eye on the broader project goals and progress.

### Kanban Board

[Link to the board](https://github.com/users/GKopanidis/projects/5)

The board was divided into three primary columns:

- **Todo:** Tasks that are planned but not yet in progress.
- **In Progress:** Tasks currently being worked on.
- **Done:** Tasks that have been completed.

Each task was created as an issue and then categorized into Epics and User Stories for better organization and focus.

### Epics and User Stories

Prior to starting development, Epics and User Stories were created to define the scope and goals of the project. This made it easier to break down the project into smaller, manageable chunks and helped in tracking progress effectively.

- **Epics**: Large areas of work that contain multiple tasks.
- **User Stories**: Smaller tasks that contribute to the completion of an Epic.

This Agile planning setup contributed significantly to the efficient and focused development of Loop

### Site Goals

As a User:

- **Discover:** Explore a wide array of content on hardware, coding, 3D printing, Windows, and gaming.
- **Learn:** Benefit from tutorials, reviews, and expert insights, tailored for both novices and experienced tech enthusiasts.
- **Participate:** Join a community of like-minded individuals, share your projects, and receive feedback from peers.
- **Inspire:** Get inspired by innovative projects and creative solutions.
- **Connect:** Network with experts and hobbyists in the tech world.

As a Site Owner:

- **Educate:** Provide valuable content that keeps users at the forefront of technology and innovation.
- **Develop:** Create a platform that not only attracts tech aficionados but also fosters a community around shared interests.
- **Innovate:** Continuously enhance the site by introducing new features, content, and interactive elements to improve the user experience.
- **Support:** Offer support and resources for users to expand their skills and knowledge.
- **Expand:** Increase the site’s reach to engage a broader audience and build a more comprehensive community.

## Overview

### Existing Features

**For Users:**

- **Like Button for Blog Posts:** Implement a like button for users to express appreciation for content.

    <img src="docs/readme_images/like_button.png" width="75%" height="75%">

- **Comment on a Post:** Allow users to comment on posts to engage with content and community.

    <img src="docs/readme_images/comment_post.png" width="75%" height="75%">

- **Account Registration:** Enable users to register for an account to access personalized features.

    <img src="docs/readme_images/register.png" width="75%" height="75%">

- **View Comments:** Users can view comments on posts to read community discussions.

    <img src="docs/readme_images/view_comments.png" width="75%" height="75%">

- **Open a Post:** Provide users the ability to open and read a post in full detail.

- **Explore Paginated Post List:** Allow users to explore posts in a paginated format for better navigation.

    <img src="docs/readme_images/pagination.png" width="75%" height="75%">

- **Add Post to Favorites:** Users can add posts to a favorites list for easy access later.

    <img src="docs/readme_images/favorite_button.png" width="75%" height="75%">

- **Profile Customization:** Once logged in, users can view and customize their profile, including uploading a picture, changing their username, email, and adding an "About Me" text.

  <img src="docs/readme_images/show_profile.png" width="75%" height="75%">

Edit view:

  <img src="docs/readme_images/edit_profile.png" width="75%" height="75%">

- **Category Viewing and Filtering:** Users can view categories and filter posts by category or view all posts collectively.

    <img src="docs/readme_images/categories.png" width="75%" height="75%">

- **Submit Request for Collaborations:** Enable a feature for submitting collaboration requests.

    <img src="docs/readme_images/submit_request_collab.png" width="75%" height="75%">

- **Make the About Page Accessible to Users:** Ensure users can easily access and read the About page.

    <img src="docs/readme_images/about_page.png" width="75%" height="75%">

- **404 Page Visibility:** Users should encounter a user-friendly 404 page when navigating to a nonexistent link, guiding them back to the active parts of the site.

    <img src="docs/readme_images/404.png" width="75%" height="75%">

**For Site Owners:**

- **Store Collaboration Requests:** Safely store submitted collaboration requests for later review.

    <img src="docs/readme_images/admin_collab_req.png" width="75%" height="75%">

- **Mark Collaborations as Read:** Ability to mark collaborations requests as read to manage incoming queries.

    <img src="docs/readme_images/collab_mark_read.png" width="75%" height="75%">

- **Create an About Page:** Develop an About page to share the mission, vision, and team behind the site.

    <img src="docs/readme_images/create_about_page.png" width="75%" height="75%">

- **Review and Approve Comments:** Implement a system for reviewing and approving user comments to maintain a positive community environment. You can also approve comments as an superuser or staff member inside the post.

  Admin panel:

    <img src="docs/readme_images/rev_and_appr_comment_1.png" width="75%" height="75%">
    <img src="docs/readme_images/rev_and_appr_comment_2.png" width="75%" height="75%">

  Frontend:

    <img src="docs/readme_images/rev_and_appr_comment_3.png" width="75%" height="75%">

- **Create Drafts:** Allow the creation of content drafts for future publication.

    <img src="docs/readme_images/post_draft.png" width="75%" height="75%">

- **Manage Posts:** Provide tools to manage (edit, update, delete) existing blog posts.

    <img src="docs/readme_images/manage_posts_1.png" width="75%" height="75%">


- **Modify or Delete a Post:** Enable the ability to modify or delete posts as needed.

    <img src="docs/readme_images/manage_posts_2.png" width="75%" height="75%">

- **Create Categories:** Develop a system for creating and managing post categories to organize content efficiently.

    <img src="docs/readme_images/create_cat.png" width="75%" height="75%">

### Features Planned

- **User-Generated Content:** Enable users to create and submit their own content, which will be published upon approval by administrators.

- **Social Media Login:** Implement functionality for users to authenticate and login using their social media accounts, enhancing convenience and accessibility.

- **Newsletter Integration:** Integrate a newsletter feature to allow users to subscribe and receive regular updates, fostering engagement and communication.

## Testing

[Link to separate testing readme](https://github.com/GKopanidis/ci-pp4-hwblog/blob/main/TESTING.md)

## Design

### Wireframes

### ERD
- Entity relationship diagram was created using [DBVisualizer](https://www.dbvis.com/) and shows the schemas for each of the models and how they are related.

    <img src="docs/readme_images/ERD.png" width="75%" height="75%">

## Technolgies

- HTML
  - The structure of the Website was developed using HTML as the main language.
- CSS
  - The Website was styled using custom CSS in an external file.
- JavaScript
  - JavaScript was used to make the custom slider on the menu page change and the bootstrap date picker.
- Python
  - Python was the main programming language used for the application using the Django Framework.
- Visual Studio Code
  - The website was developed using Visual Studio Code IDE
- GitHub
  - Source code is hosted on GitHub
- Git
  - Used to commit and push code during the development of the Website
- Font Awesome
  - This was used for various icons throughout the site
- Favicon.io
  - favicon files were created at https://favicon.io/favicon-converter/
- balsamiq
  - wireframes were created using balsamiq from https://balsamiq.com/wireframes/desktop/#


**Python Modules Used**

- Django Class based views (ListView, UpdateView, DeleteView, CreateView) - Used for the classes to create, read, update and delete
- messages - Used to pass messages to the toasts to display feedback to the user upon actions

**External Python Modules**

- **asgiref==3.7.2:** ASGI (Asynchronous Server Gateway Interface) utilities for Python asynchronous web apps and servers.
- **cloudinary==1.36.0:** A client library for integrating Cloudinary services, enabling easy image and video management in the cloud.
- **crispy-bootstrap5==0.7:** Integrates Django forms with Bootstrap 5, providing a way to render form fields in a Bootstrap style easily.
- **dj-database-url==0.5.0:** Utility to help configure Django database settings using a URL, supporting different database engines.
- **dj3-cloudinary-storage==0.0.6:** Django 3 storage backend for Cloudinary, allowing easy file uploads to Cloudinary's cloud service.
- **Django==4.2.9:** A high-level Python Web framework that encourages rapid development and clean, pragmatic design.
- **django-allauth==0.57.0:** Authentication app for Django, providing a set of features such as social account authentication.
- **django-crispy-forms==2.1:** Django app that lets you easily build, customize, and reuse forms using your favorite CSS framework.
- **django-summernote==0.8.20.0:** Django app that integrates the Summernote WYSIWYG editor, allowing for rich text editing in forms.
- **gunicorn==20.1.0:** A Python WSGI HTTP Server for UNIX, designed to serve Python web applications from a web server.
- **oauthlib==3.2.2:** A generic, spec-compliant library to implement OAuth1 and OAuth2 providers and clients in Python.
- **psycopg2==2.9.9:** PostgreSQL database adapter for Python, providing access to PostgreSQL from Python code.
- **PyJWT==2.8.0:** A Python library to encode and decode JSON Web Tokens (JWT), used in authentication protocols.
- **python3-openid==3.2.0:** A Python 3 library for OpenID support, facilitating the implementation of OpenID authentication.
- **requests-oauthlib==1.3.1:** Provides OAuthlib authentication support for Requests, simplifying OAuth1 and OAuth2 client integration.
- **sqlparse==0.4.4:** A non-validating SQL parser for Python, useful for formatting SQL queries or extracting information from them.
- **urllib3==1.26.18:** A powerful HTTP client for Python, with features for thread safety, connection pooling, client-side SSL/TLS, and more.
- **whitenoise==5.3.0:** Simplifies static file serving for Python web apps, with integration for Django, Flask, and other WSGI apps.


## Deployment

### Version Control

The site was created using the Visual Studio Code editor and pushed to github to the remote repository ‘ci-pp4-hwblog’.

The following git commands were used throughout development to push code to the remote repo:

```git add <file>``` - This command was used to add the file(s) to the staging area before they are committed.

```git commit -m “commit message”``` - This command was used to commit changes to the local repository queue ready for the final step.

```git push``` - This command was used to push all committed code to the remote repository on github.

### Heroku Deployment

The site was deployed to Heroku. The steps to deploy are as follows:

- Navigate to heroku and create an account
- Click the new button in the top right corner
- Select create new app
- Enter app name
- Select region and click create app
- Click the resources tab and search for Heroku Postgres
- Select hobby dev and continue
- Go to the settings tab and then click reveal config vars
- Add the following config vars:
  - SECRET_KEY: (Your secret key)
  - DATABASE_URL: (This should already exist with add on of postgres)
  - CLOUNDINARY_URL: (cloudinary api url)
- Click the deploy tab
- Scroll down to Connect to GitHub and sign in / authorize when prompted
- In the search box, find the repository you want to deploy and click connect
- Scroll down to Manual deploy and choose the main branch
- Click deploy

The app should now be deployed.

The live link can be found here: [Live Site](https://ci-pp4-hwblog-402679d73bbc.herokuapp.com/)


### Creating a Database

- Log into ElephantSQL.com and access your dashboard.
- Click "Create New Instance".
- Set up a plan, name it, and select the closest data center.
- Click "Review" and "Create instance".
- Return to the ElephantSQL dashboard and copy the database URL.


### The env.py File
- Create an env.py file and ensure it's in .gitignore.
- Add DATABASE_URL and SECRET_KEY to env.py.
- If using Cloudinary, add CLOUDINARY_URL to env.py.

### Run Locally

Navigate to the GitHub Repository you want to clone to use locally:

- Click on the code drop down button
- Click on HTTPS
- Copy the repository link to the clipboard
- Open your IDE of choice (git must be installed for the next steps)
- Type git clone copied-git-url into the IDE terminal

The project will now have been cloned on your local machine for use.

### Fork Project

Most commonly, forks are used to either propose changes to someone else's project or to use someone else's project as a starting point for your own idea.

- Navigate to the GitHub Repository you want to fork.

- On the top right of the page under the header, click the fork button.

- This will create a duplicate of the full project in your GitHub Repository.

## Credits

[Django Blog](https://github.com/GKopanidis/ci-pp4-wt-django-blog "Django Blog")
  - A valuable resource utilized in the educational journey, serving as a reference point for project deployment.

[Mastering Mixins in Django](https://medium.com/@bobbykboseoffice/mastering-mixins-in-django-acda05b34dd6#:~:text=In%20Django%2C%20mixins%20are%20used,other%20classes%20by%20using%20inheritance. "Mastering Mixins in Django")
  - Explains the effective utilization of mixins in Django, enhancing code modularity and reusability through inheritance.

[Stack Overflow](https://stackoverflow.com/)
  - A vital knowledge repository pivotal in the development and troubleshooting phases of the project.

[Django Project Docs DB Model](https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/4.2/topics/db/models/) \
  - Provides comprehensive guidance on constructing database models in Django, facilitating efficient data management.

[Django AllAuth Docs](https://django-allauth.readthedocs.io/en/latest/) \
  - Offers detailed insights into the functionality of Django AllAuth, a versatile authentication solution for Django projects.

[Bootstrap Documentation](https://getbootstrap.com/docs/5.3/getting-started/introduction/) \
  - An indispensable resource for simplifying front-end development with Bootstrap's extensive documentation and component library.

[Gareth McGirr](https://github.com/Gareth-McGirr) \
  - Acknowledged for providing invaluable guidance throughout the project's development process.

## Media

**Images**
   - AI image generator

### Acknowledgments

- Thank you to my mentor [Gareth-McGirr](https://github.com/Gareth-McGirr) who provided me with lots of pointers on resources to help on my 4th project!
